So I believe now we're going
on to the best part of this,
which is going to be question time, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, on to victory.
That's right,
cuz we're into the final stage.
All right, I actually, it looks like
I pre-planned some questions and
which I forgot about.
So let's do them.
All right, if you've only done TypeScript,
what do you think about GoLang?
All right just was think about it for
a moment.
What are some things you liked about it?
What are some things you hated about it?
What are some things you wish
TypeScript had, that it doesn't?
Or do you think there's nothing?
You think there's nothing that's needed.
>> TypeScript's totally happy to let
you just pass wrong values around.
Go was right on top of, I mean, especially
the LSP was right on top of letting me
know that I've mistyped something, or the
thing was referencing the wrong thing, or
whatever.
>> Yeah, I find the LSP to
be the best in class LSP.
If you're using it, it just constantly
puts you in the right position.
Even using API's, it will prefill in
the arguments with a huge amount of
the default values you need.
It's extremely impressive.
It just makes it super easy.
That's one thing I love about it, too,
is just I find that any one of any skill
level can use Go mostly effective, right?
You're gonna write a service,
it's gonna perform better
than your TypeScript version.
You're probably gonna
be correct more often.
It's very easy, right?
It's a very easy language.
And so
I kinda wish that TypeScript had that.
Cuz the problem I see about TypeScript
is allows you to, or JavaScript, really,
is it allows you to indefinitely abstract,
and always, right?
You can do extends, you can do
all sorts of you know OOP stuff.
But on top of that you can keep on
abstracting in all sorts of kind of
fun ways.
Which just allows code to get further and
further complicated, is what I find.
And I just find that a lot of distractions
just kinda like leaking, right?
What about error handling?
[INAUDIBLE], let's recall all the Go
error handling that we've done.
How do you feel about it?
Do you wish it was a little bit less
verbose, a little less in your face?
Yeah, we got a question from the back.
>> Yeah, there was a comment,
it's a bit abstract, but
Go feels like it has fewer tricks and
is more straightforward than TypeScript.
Where, in TypeScript, you can kinda
shoot yourself in the foot, I guess.
>> Yeah, another thing just kinda going
on that, like converting a number, right?
You know that it wasn't successful.
Instead, you have to be reactive.
You have to be proactive in TypeScript and
reactive in Go.
So, Go lets you have to react to it,
whereas TypeScript you have to go and
check, is this thing a gnat or not?
All right, so it's kinda has that
reactive, proactive type thing.
I think I prefer the reactive
because it's always in your face.
I'm gonna always write a service
that's a bit more robust cuz
I found all the errors along the way.
Good feels, all right,
I think error handling is great.
What about Rust?
How do you feel about Rust if you're
primarily familiar with TypeScript?
It's probably kind of a hard transition,
maybe it feels a little arcane.
Yeah, nothing, any positives?
>> It seems more complicated,
the language, but
to write it's much more legible than Go?
It feels like there's just less typing
going on, and then it's pretty concise.
>> Yeah, the in-betweens aren't filled
with a bunch of does not equal, nil,
checks, and all that, yeah.
I agree with that.
It's definitely harder, in some sense that
you always are thinking about your types.
Are you consuming your types?
Remember, I still have a pre-planned
explosion about to happen.
And so, we're gonna run into
a problem where we didn't pre-plan
our types far enough ahead and
things aren't gonna work out.
And so, Go or Rust can be very
complicated in that matter.
We're gonna have to really rethink
about what we're doing, all right?
>> All right, on the chat someone says,
I love the error messages in Rust.
>> Yeah.
>> But it probably wouldn't be worth
it if there weren't a performance
just difference, in my opinion.
>> Yeah there's a, I mean,
it depends of course on the operation,
if you're heavily Internet trafficked,
right?
If you're setting out
large quantities of data,
obviously you're likely gonna run
into a system overhead problem where
the performance of your program
is not gonna be that important.
But for the most part, I mean,
Rust is gonna perform significantly
faster than JavaScript.
And then larger amounts of stuff
that it's solely focused on just
the language doing calculations,
the larger Rust wins.
And so it's pretty nice.
And if you write it properly using Tokyo
or whatever runtime you want to use for
asynchronicity, you can just give
it another core and it runs.
Whereas with TypeScript,
you can't just give it another core.
You have to go and create another process.
If there's state that needs to be shared
you've added a whole complication that
just can't be undone.
>> And so it's pretty interesting.
What do people primarily use Rust for?
That's a question from Twitch chat.
As far as I can tell you rewrite
everything in Rust, RIIR,
that's the classic.
What you really want to do is you find
a great tool and then you rewrite it,
GREP, RG, find FT, right?
Always rewrite, but
Rust really is just, I mean,
I think it's real spot is
gonna be in CLI applications.
And embedded I think
is gonna be a big win.
Because if you're using hydraulics,
you really wanna make sure you got
the thing right so
you don't actually crush your hand, right?
You're gonna want, so I think Rust is
gonna play a good part in embedded.
I'm curious about the web world.
I am not 100% convinced Rust is
gonna be the web world language.
But I think it has a good chance,
especially with things like macros and
being able to create
HTML inside your Rust.
So you can create a JSX-like experience,
and have a really high performance,
very awesome server-side rendering.
And so there you go.
Also now you're using Wasm,
if Wasm gains more steam, you're
starting to really see some wins there.
But there's a lot of bets
on making that all happen.
That's my personal, it's my personal take.
I also find it just more enjoyable
to program the trade system,
being able to just make
things work really seamlessly
into a lot of their standard library,
it's very fantastic.
All right, yeah, and this is awesome.
Just like, if you come from every now and
then I have to print out stuff in C++.
You just wanna print out a struct and
it's just like, man, this sucks.
But it's just so glorious that this is
just available and it just works, right?
That just makes me really, really happy.